# Projects
In this project, we are going to make a motion-detection security alarm using Arduino Uno. It can detect the motion of an intruder with the help of a PIR Sensor. It is based on infrared motion sensing that every body emits heat energy in the form of infrared rays which are invisible to the human naked eye but can be detected using an electronic motion sensor.
project is to develop a motion sensor alarm based on a Passive infrared (PIR). This project aims to build a sensor system that transmits and receives the signals. This project is about motion detection using an infrared sensor wirelessly. Besides that, it also acted as an auto power-switching system. When the sensor is triggered, the signal will transmit wirelessly to take further action. For this project, we relate this sensor system with an auto power light switching system. This means when the sensor is triggered, the light in a room will automatically switch ON.
The main objective is that it focuses on the detection of motion without any external touch. The applications are automatic circuits, in defense applications, and other electronic devices. The passive infrared sensor detects the IR radiations emitted from humans within its range and it sends the signal to Arduino uno then the LED glows and then it triggers Speaker, hence motion is detected.
The detection of motion has its roots in astronomy. The necessity to have devices that can work on their own with minimal human control and at the same time can be controlled remotely inspired the development of a simple motion detector component. This component employs infrared technology for motion sensing. This project involves the implementation of software and hardware. For the hardware part, the PIR sensor, Speaker, and laptop are connected to each other by an ATMega328 on an Arduino UNO microcontroller which acts as the central processing unit of the whole component. PIR sensor aids in detecting the presence of someone, Speaker is used as an alarm unit that beeps when someone is detected. The laptop is used to program the Arduino UNO but when the component is working as programmed, it is used to power the microcontroller and also as the status indicator module. For the software part, the C programming language was used to program the microcontroller through the Arduino software. When motion is detected, the Speaker beeps, the LED pin on the microcontroller light, and a “MOTION DETECTED” message is printed on the laptop screen. The working of the Speaker and the LED is concurrent for five seconds and the message is printed once during the same time interval. When no motion is detected the devices remain mum as programmed. Communication between the Arduino UNO and other devices is through voltage signals which are carriers of information. The motion detector component that has been developed is very flexible and easy to use by users, who can as well customize and improve it further to satisfy their varying needs.

**Application**
PIR sensors are primarily used for detecting the motion of the object, which is significantly spread over intruder alarms i.e. for security purposes, Automatic ticket gates, Entryway lighting, Security lighting, Automated sinks/toilet flushers, Hand dryers, and Automatic doors. Apart from motion detection, PIR sensors are implemented in various devices that measure the temperature of a remote object. In such a device, a non-differential PIR output is used. The IR spectrum of a specific type of matter is observed and according to that calibration output signal is evaluated. Which gives us the exact value of temperature from a remote place.
PIR sensors are also used as heat Detectors. They are being used in many industrial safety applications as well as domestic security purposes. Due to their low power and space consumption properties, PIR sensors are being used in wide applications.

